Add documentation for the Project Design Diagrams view (#294)
wso2/ballerina-plugin-vscode: docs/project-design-view/readme.md

# Ballerina Project Design View

With the increasing size and complexity of software applications, it is likely that your product is a composition of multiple inter-related components. When the number and/or depth of such components grow, the need to create a simple picture of its interactions becomes important. The Ballerina project design view is deployed with this intention of providing a convenient way to generate the high-level picture of such applications, purely based on the source code. And, in addition to the component interactions, the project design view is also capable of visualizing the Ballerina record types in your application and their associations.

## Prerequisites

> 1. Ballerina version [2201.2.2](https://ballerina.io/downloads/) or upwards

Reviewer: Probably we can say that this is supported from 2201.3.0 upwards (eventhough we backported this for the previous update patch version for the choreo requirements, better not to mention a patch version as the minimum compatible version IMO). @hevayo WDYT?

```ballerina
isolated function getSupportedCurrencies() returns string[]|error {
   @display {
       label: "CurrencyService",
   	id: "currency"
   }
   final CurrencyServiceClient currencyClient = check new ("http://localhost:9093");
   GetSupportedCurrenciesResponse|grpc:Error supportedCurrencies = currencyClient->GetSupportedCurrencies({});
   if supportedCurrencies is grpc:Error {
       log:printError("failed to call getSupportedCurrencies from currency service");
       return supportedCurrencies;
   }
   return supportedCurrencies.currency_codes;
}
```

### 4. Invoking service resources

The resource invocations between services need to be done using [client access actions](https://ballerina.io/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.2.0#support-for-resource-methods-in-client-objects).

## Explore the Project Design View Features
As mentioned previously, the Ballerina design diagrams can be generated through `Ballerina: Project Design View` extension command. This will lead you to a separate webview panel that will contain three types of design diagrams.

> 

Reviewer: maybe we can add a simple GIF explaining the steps in here

   ![Types Diagram](images/types-diagram.png)

   > The multiplicities of the associations are represented on either side of the connector, while the [type inclusions](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/type-inclusion-for-records/) are differentiated using a directed link (represents inheritance).

In addition to the above diagrams, you can also view the **composition** of an individual record type. These type compositions can be accessed through:
   1. Clicking on the record types that are included in the request/response bodies of service invocations shown in the level 2 service diagram
   2. Clicking on the record head of the records displayed in the types diagram

The following is the composition diagram generated for the *PassengerFare* record type seen in the above types diagram.
   
   ![Types Composition Diagram](images/types-composition.png)

### Accessory Features

In addition to the above, the Ballerina project design diagram tool also includes the following features.
   1. Export the diagrams in JPEG format
   2. Filter the services and types based on the packages

>    3. Rearrange the diagram as you see fit

Reviewer: Shall we rearrange this list based on the importance? IMO we can bring down the export option as the 3rd item

# Ballerina Project Design View

> With the increasing size and complexity of software applications, it is likely that your product is a composition of multiple inter-related components. When the number and/or depth of such components grow, the need to create a simple picture of its interactions becomes important. The Ballerina project design view is deployed with this intention of providing a convenient way to generate the high-level picture of such applications, purely based on the source code. And, in addition to the component interactions, the project design view is also capable of visualizing the Ballerina record types in your application and their associations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the increasing size and complexity of software applications, it is likely that your product is a composition of multiple interrelated components. When the number and/or depth of such components grow, the need to create a simple picture of their interactions becomes important. The Ballerina project design view is deployed with the intention of providing a convenient way to generate a high-level picture of such applications purely based on the source code. In addition to the component interactions, the project design view is also capable of visualizing the Ballerina record types in your application and their associations.
```

## Prerequisites

> 1. Ballerina version [2201.2.2](https://ballerina.io/downloads/) or upwards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the latest versions of [Ballerina](https://ballerina.io/downloads/) and [Ballerina Visual Studio Code plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wso2.ballerina).
```
We need to be consistent in how we add the prerequisites. See https://github.com/wso2/ballerina-plugin-vscode/pull/292 and https://github.com/wso2/ballerina-plugin-vscode/pull/272.

> 2. Ballerina VSCode plugin version [3.3.0](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=WSO2.ballerina) or upwards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Ballerina VSCode plugin version [3.3.0](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=WSO2.ballerina) or upwards
```
We can remove these as per the above comment.

The Ballerina Project Design View tool is packed with the latest release of the Ballerina VS Code plugin available in the VS Code marketplace. The diagrams can be generated upon executing the `Ballerina: Project Design` extension command. However, to get the best possible view of your project, it is necessary to setup your Ballerina project with the following concepts in mind.

## Related Concepts

> ### 1. A Ballerina Project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### A Ballerina project
```
No need to have numbered bullet points if we do not have a particular order for the concepts. Also, we use sentence case for titles in Ballerina docs.

In the context of this tool, a Ballerina project is considered to be a collection of one or more Ballerina packages.

> ### 2. The Project Workspace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### The Project Workspace
```

> In the context of this tool, a Ballerina project is contained by a [VSCode workspace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/workspaces). Hence, the diagram generator is functional only if the Ballerina packages are added to the IDE as a workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the context of this tool, a Ballerina project is contained by a [VS Code workspace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/workspaces). Hence, the diagram generator is functional only if the Ballerina packages are added to the IDE as a workspace.
```

> > **Tip:** You can save your VSCode workspace as a file and simply use this file to access your workspace thereafter. The diagrams could be refreshed to reflect any changes you make to this workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Tip:** You can save your VS Code workspace as a file and simply use this file to access your workspace thereafter. The diagrams could be refreshed to reflect any changes you make to this workspace.
```

> ### 3. Service Identifiers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Service Identifiers
```
This need not be in sentence case if its a name of a component or a pronoun.

> Since multiple services can have the same path, this tool depends on an additional annotation to uniquely identify the services within your project. The current approach to do so is via the `display annotation`: a general purpose annotation that can be used in Ballerina code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since multiple services can have the same path, this tool depends on an additional annotation to uniquely identify the services within your project. The current approach to do so is via the `display` annotation, which is a general-purpose annotation that can be used in Ballerina code.
```

> By providing an unique value to the id field of the display annotation, you can assign an identifier to each service. For reference, the *CurrencyService* in the following code snippet has been annotated with an id of value *“currency”*, and this identifier will be used to differentiate the service throughout the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By providing a unique value to the `ID` field of the display annotation, you can assign an identifier to each service. For reference, the *CurrencyService* in the following code snippet has been annotated with an ID of the value `currency`, and this identifier will be used to differentiate the service throughout the project.
```

```ballerina
@display {
   label: "CurrencyService",
   id: "currency"
}
@grpc:ServiceDescriptor {descriptor: ROOT_DESCRIPTOR, descMap: getDescriptorMapDemo()}
service "CurrencyService" on ep {final map<decimal> & readonly currencyMap;
   function init() returns error? {
       json currencyJson = check io:fileReadJson(currencyJsonPath);
       self.currencyMap = check parseCurrencyJson(currencyJson).cloneReadOnly();
   }
 
   remote function GetSupportedCurrencies(Empty value) returns GetSupportedCurrenciesResponse|error {
       return {currency_codes: self.currencyMap.keys()};
   }
}
```

If other services interact with this service, this same identifier has to be provided upon creating the client endpoint. By doing so, it makes it possible to uniquely identify and link the service interactions between one another. 

> For example, refer to the following code snippet that calls on the *Currency Service* from a different component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the code snippet below calls on the `Currency Service` from a different component.
```

```ballerina
isolated function getSupportedCurrencies() returns string[]|error {
   @display {
       label: "CurrencyService",
   	id: "currency"
   }
   final CurrencyServiceClient currencyClient = check new ("http://localhost:9093");
   GetSupportedCurrenciesResponse|grpc:Error supportedCurrencies = currencyClient->GetSupportedCurrencies({});
   if supportedCurrencies is grpc:Error {
       log:printError("failed to call getSupportedCurrencies from currency service");
       return supportedCurrencies;
   }
   return supportedCurrencies.currency_codes;
}
```

> ### 4. Invoking service resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Invoking service resources
```

The resource invocations between services need to be done using [client access actions](https://ballerina.io/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.2.0#support-for-resource-methods-in-client-objects).

> ## Explore the Project Design View Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Explore the `Project Design View` features
```

> As mentioned previously, the Ballerina design diagrams can be generated through `Ballerina: Project Design` command. This command can be found in the VS Code command palette, as seen below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Ballerina design diagrams can be generated by executing the `Ballerina: Project Design` command. This command can be found in the VS Code command palette as shown below.
```

![Extension Command](images/extension-command.gif)

The execution of this command will lead you to a separate webview panel that will contain three types of design diagrams.

> ### 1. Service Diagram - Level 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Service Diagram - Level 1
```
Check the heading levels.

> The level 1 diagram is your starting point with the design diagram tool. This diagram displays all the available services within your project, with directed links representing any interactions between them. The following is a level 1 diagram generated for a sample Ballerina project. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The level 1 diagram is your starting point with the design diagram tool. This diagram displays all the services available within your project with directed links representing any interactions between them. The following is a level 1 diagram generated for a sample Ballerina project. 
```

   ![L1 Service Diagram](images/service-l1.png)

>    > This project has 4 HTTP services that interact with one another. The directed link between the *Flights* service and the *Bookings* service is an indication that a component in the Flights service invokes the *Booking* service. In addition to this, the *Flights* service also invokes an **external** service via a connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   >**Info** This project has 4 HTTP services that interact with one another. The directed link between the `Flights` service and the `Bookings` service is an indication that a component in the `Flights` service invokes the `Booking` service. In addition to this, the `Flights` service also invokes an `external` service via a connector.
```
The guideline is to have UI elements in bold text and all code components, keywords, etc. in bold text.

### 2. Service Diagram - Level 2

> The level 2 diagram delves deeper into the compositions of the services and the interactions between them. The following diagram is the level 2 representation of the same project sample referred to above. This diagram has further delved into the individual resource/remote functions of the services and their invocations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The level 2 diagram dives deeper into the compositions of the services and the interactions between them. The following diagram is the level 2 representation of the [same project sample above]. This diagram depicts the individual resource/remote functions of the services and their invocations.
```
Add the link to the particular section.

   ![L2 Service Diagram](images/service-l2.png)

> The data types of the request and response bodies of for the interactions can be viewed when hovering over a particular invocation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data types of the request and response bodies of the interactions can be viewed when hovering over a particular invocation.
```

   ![L2 Service Data Types Hover](images/invocation-data-types.png)

### 3. Types Diagram

The types diagram provides a comprehensive view of all the Ballerina record types defined in your project and their associations.

   ![Types Diagram](images/types-diagram.png)

>    > The multiplicities of the associations are represented on either side of the connector, while the [type inclusions](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/type-inclusion-for-records/) are differentiated using a directed link (represents inheritance).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   >**Info:** The multiplicities of the associations are represented on either side of the connector while the [type inclusions](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/type-inclusion-for-records/) are differentiated using a directed link (represents inheritance).
```
This should be either an `info`, `tip, or a `note`.

> In addition to the above diagrams, you can also view the **composition** of an individual record type. These type compositions can be accessed through:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the above diagrams, you can also view the **composition** of an individual record type. These type of compositions can be accessed by:
```

   1. Clicking on the record types that are included in the request/response bodies of service invocations shown in the level 2 service diagram
   2. Clicking on the record head of the records displayed in the types diagram

> The following is the composition diagram generated for the *PassengerFare* record type seen in the above types diagram.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is the composition diagram generated for the `PassengerFare` record type seen in the [types diagram] above.
```
Add the link to the diagram.

   
   ![Types Composition Diagram](images/types-composition.png)

> ### Accessory Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Accessory features
```

In addition to the above, the Ballerina project design diagram tool also includes the following features.
   1. Filter the services and types based on the packages

>    2. Rearrange the diagram as you see fit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   2. Rearrange the diagram as appropriate
```
